Details of Coursework
The coursework forms 100% of the assessment for this module. The coursework is split into two parts.   Part 1 (40%) is given below and part 2 (60%) will be available on MyUniHub in January 2015.

Deadline for Submission of Coursework
Part 1 - Data Warehousing	Labs in Week 11
	   Final Report		Friday 23rd January 2015
Part 2 - Data Mining	Labs in Week 20
	   Final Report	Friday 27th March 2015

Coursework - Part 1
1.   Overview
This section contains the material for part 1 of the coursework.

2.  Important Dates
You must ensure you meet the deadlines for each element.

Portfolio Element	Type	  Due Date
1	Draft	Labs in Week 11
2	Final Report	Friday 23rd January 2015 (Week 13)

By Week 11, you should have a draft report ready to discuss with your tutor for feedback.

3. Plagiarism
Plagiarism in data warehouse design is easy to spot. Please be aware that the penalties are severe and your final degree award classification is at risk.

4. Coursework Content
You are required to work in a group (maximum 6 and minimum 4).

5.  Self-Assessment and Peer Assessment
Every member of the group is expected to complete the self-assessment and peer assessment forms. (See end of document)

6. Coursework Requirements:
In this coursework you are expected to design a data mart for a department (or sub-section) of an organisation of your choice. This can be an existing or imaginary organisation.  For your chosen organisation, you will need to provide a detailed analysis of your data sources; design the data model, the database schema and the database integration framework. It is desired that you apply Extended ER or UML modelling technique to represent the data model, schema and dimension design.

Your submission should include a full bibliography with appropriate referencing of sources and appendices you may collect during your survey. The referencing demonstrates the range of your engagement with current theories and practices and highlights the breadth of your exploration on the topic.

Your submission should be in the form of a report and should contain the following:

1.	Introduction (5 marks)
1.1.	The Company name and type of business 
1.2.	The Company objective, vision and scope 
1.3.	The department (or sub-section) to be considered.

2.	Analysis of Operational Systems and Data Sources (20 marks)
2.1.	A discussion of the organisations current operational system
2.2.	The data sources used by the systems discussed in 2.1.
2.3.	An ERD(s) for the business
2.4.	A discussion of the advantages/disadvantages that a data mart would have for your organisation. 

3.	Data Mart Design (30 marks)
3.1.	The identification of two subject areas, identified during 2, which would be of benefit to the managers your organisation.
3.2.	The design of the star schemas associated with both subjects area identified in 3.1
3.3.	A discussion of the granularity of dimension and fact tables
3.4.	The extension of one of the star schemas into a snowflake schema.

4.	Data Mart Implementation (20 marks)
4.1.	Implement a prototype of the data mart by creation of the required tables.
4.2.	Discuss how you will you implement the ETL process? E.g. full or incremental, online or offline extraction?

5.	Data Analysis (20 marks)
5.1.	A discussion on different OLAP techniques, with reference to data cubes.
5.2.	An explanation how your data mart could provide relevant information for your managers
5.3.	This should include three relevant data queries.  (You need to include sample scripts)

6.	Conclusions (5 marks)
6.1.	A discussion of strategies to overcome future challenges.

9.	 Marking Scheme
1st	
- Significant levels of analysis to improve original business problem (70+)	
- Correctly identify all data sources and data model
- Demonstrates a clear, comprehensively understanding of Data Warehouse design
- Shows initiative in approach to handle of Data Warehouse challenge
		
Upper 2nd
- Show deep understanding of the business problem.
- Correctly identify all data sources and data model
- Demonstrates accurate knowledge and understanding of Data Warehouse design- Report is error free.  There are no spelling mistakes or in-correctly used words.  There are no long, confused or unwieldy sentences.
		
Lower 2nd 	?   Clearly identify business problem
- Correctly identify all data sources and data model
- Demonstrates a limited but accurate level of understanding of Data Warehouse design.
- Report is near error free.  There are very few spelling mistakes or in-correctly used words. There are no long, confused or unwieldy sentences.

3rd	? Show basic understanding of business problem
- Correctly identify most data sources and data model
- Some   confusion in understanding of Data   Warehouse designs.  Some overall structure and conceptual understanding
- The grammar and punctuation in the report is reasonable.  There are some long, confused or unwieldy sentences, which distract from legibility

Where to submit
Each group should submit one report via the drop box in your learning environment. Make sure you clearly identify ALL group members by name and student Id. 

Do not hand written assessed coursework directly to your tutor, and do not submit it by email to your tutor

Test Veeraj Bhura
